================
Package Overview
================

{{ cookiecutter.project_name }} is a `Python <https://www.python.org>`_ package
providing a handy tool for saying hello to others{% if cookiecutter.app_type != 'bare_repo' %} and also a command-line tool to spread
greetings to a **lot more** people, **and in colour!** This way, {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}
is all that you need to for a good greeting{% endif %}. It aims to be the **most practical**
tool for generating greetings with Python.

{{ cookiecutter.project_name }} is well suited for:

  - Generating a "Hello" greeting directly to someone with a name.

{{ cookiecutter.project_name }} achieves this by implementing a ``hello`` function,
which can receive any valid (or inexistent) name in UTF-8.

Here are just a few of the things {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} does well:

  - **Greet a person** by their name, which is better directed and more special than
    trying to greet the whole world at once
{% if cookiecutter.app_type != 'bare_repo' %}
  - Colourful greetings: greetings can be done via CLI from a **select range of
    colours** for you to pick or let {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} paint it colourful
    for you.
{%- else %}.{%- endif %}

These principles have been chosen to drive {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} development
due to how practical and wonderful they are when we discuss greeting with programs. The
project aims to be a more attractive alternative to usual "Hello World" programs by
making the output more personal and meaningful for users.

A few other notes to take on {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}:

  - It is **simple**. No bloats, no complex implementation, no ads, no exquisite
    features. It should be used for one thing and one thing only: say hello to others.
    Of course, with simplicity comes some trade-offs. If you are looking for a tool that
    allows for more customisation, you may be better served by creating your own
    application;
  - {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} is an important part of the `galactipy ecossystem
    <https://www.gitlab.com/manoelpqueiroz/galactipy>`_. Having been generated by this
    `Cookiecutter <https://www.cookiecutter.io/>`_ template, it helps spread how
    practical templating tools are and how they should be more discussed around the
    community;
  - {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} is a benchmark in greeting software, having been
    used by professionals and hobbyists alike.

Functions
---------

{{ cookiecutter.project_name }} implements a single ``hello`` function for use. It
receives a single argument for a name to return the string ``"Hello <name>"``:

.. ipython:: python

    from {{ cookiecutter.package_name }} import hello
    hello("Manoel")

{%- if cookiecutter.app_type != 'bare_repo' %}
It also wraps the ``hello`` function in a CLI tool, with an additional configuration for
outputting colour using `Rich <https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html>`_:

.. code-block:: shell

    {{ cookiecutter.repo_name }} --name Manoel -c red

Why not use Rich to format the ``hello`` function directly?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You might ask why we didn't implement the ``hello`` function with colour formatting
directly embedded in the API. This is mainly because the function itself is supposed to
be executed in a REPL or integrated within another project.

Since other developers might like to use the output of the function and tinker with it
inside their own code, there is no need to render it coloured. Paired with the fact that
usually the colour output is most useful for end users, we decided to use this
formatting directly in the CLI implementation.
{%- endif %}

Getting Support
---------------

The first stop for {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} is the `{{ cookiecutter.scm_platform }}
Issue Tracker <{{ cookiecutter.__scm_link_url }}/issues>`_. If you have a general
question, you can ask over there using the "Question" issue template.

Community
---------

{{ cookiecutter.project_name }} is being actively developed by {{ cookiecutter.author }},
dedicating time and energy to make it a helpful{% if cookiecutter.licence != 'nos' %} open source{% endif %} project for its users.

If you're interested in contributing, please visit the :ref:`Contributing Guide
<development/contributing>`.

Licence
-------

.. literalinclude:: ../../LICENCE
